Let me start by telling a story. When I was in high school, I have no idea 
why I was born and why am I here to do the work I am doing and studying. We studied 
really hard from 6am to 9pm, just in order to compete with other 6 million of students 
during the national exam. It was not a lot of fun, and I have no idea why we are studying 
all the subject that we were studying, we barely have anytime outside school. I was not 
enjoying it. So I decided to not take the national exame, and signed up a full year course 
to prepare me for English language test and SAT. It was the first time that feel truly that
I am chasing my dream and doing the things that are not setup by the society or meet anyone's expectation.
I was alive. Fast forward, I came to a new Country and a new city, Calgary, Canada. On 
the flight from YVR to YYC, I had my first glance of the loki mountatin. It was beautiful 
and soon I have a panic attack. I am on the flight in a country that I have never visited before, and 
transit myself into a stage of my life - University. I choose the major of computer science after 
doing some research on the Internet, and decided to went for it since I was good at math and logics,
and the major seems a good fit me. I have the period of the time that I just want to study, hit the 
library after the classes and crack the assignment way before its due day and spending a lot of 
time googling the ways to learn the calculus, statistics, and discrete math which is hidden in an 
introductory computer science course. I was fully booked for everyday, and there was no time that 
I give myself to spare, I was very one dimensional, but I was enjoying it, enjoying the study for 
the first time, that actually enjoying it. I will feel so happy after solving some of the math problems
after hours of learning new material and digesting. I would feel so happy after a logical course which 
it seems so much fun to prove "If Eva have not eaten the apple, then Adam must did" on a piece of A4 paper 
using logical symbols negation, coujunction and or. Fast forward, the COVID hits, the in person classes 
were shut down and I went back my home country, I was staying up every night just in order to catch 
the synchronous lecture, I would love to argue with professor in the machinery course. It was very exhausting 
to live without seeing the sun for an entire year, but it was worth it. I got to know how a latch works,
how divide and conquer worked, and build a system with a team of 15 people through mimic colloboration, but 
man it was fun!

She was there all the time.








My name is Zhijie Xia. I am applying for the Mobile Robotics Lab at esteemed McGill University. I have 
firstly come up the idea of studying robotics years ago when I was young kid wish to make an impact in
this world. The world is constantly involving place, and many technologies have enmerged while I was growing 
up. Flip-phone, smartphone, laptop, tablet, not just the hardware set also the software side, conference video 
apps, slack, notion, obsidian, chatgpt, ethereum, bitcoin. All those technologies have merged gradually 
throughout the years, it is make me realize how wonderful our world is and kinda want to know those 
people who developed those technologies and maybe someday become part of it. As someone who wondered and 
wondered, I signed up my undergraduate degree at University of Calgary and studied computer science 
as my major. I was immediately fasniated by the courses and the logical behind everything. 
I find there is nothing particularly hard in the computer science and everything that we are using 
are being build by engineers that are no smarter than me. I can understand their design and grasp 
their original purpose of creating the master piece called computer. I have been really interested 
in the Linux for a while, and I used Linux system throughout my undergraduate degree and I code a lot 
of C and did some kernel development, I would love to play around with terminal and writing bash scripts 
that do staff that seems cool. I once printed the book linux from scratch and being a advocator of 
open source movement. I loved cryptocurrency and the idea of a distrbuted banking system that everyone 
is anomyous and no mid man and the idea of longest chain wins, and I put a lot of time learning it 
and understand what bitcoin is and how it was implemented and read about bitcoin whitepaper and 
ethereum white paper and smart contract and I even used my free time to implement bitcoin core in Go. 
I also build my ethereum mining rigs in my dorm. I just could not stop smiling when the fans are spinning 
the hashrate went up. I learned how to code a game using GPIO and on RasperPi called fog, I enjoyed 
the low level programming very much during my first two year of university and theorical part of 
the computer science all the logics. I particular love a course that requires me to write a compiler from 
scratch where I throughoutly understand how the compiler works and it was no longer a black for me. 
It becomes a combinations of larser, parser, code generator. I was just loving it. During my time in school,
I find I have time to do outside the course work, I asked Dr. Robin Cockett if I can work on a research project 
with him, and he showed how much functional programming can do wonderful things. Dr. Williams discussed 
computer network with me. At that summer, I did not get the PURE award to work with Dr. Robin Cockett 
who was trying to work with on a project called CaMPL. I ended up looking into different professors in my
faculty, and I found out Dr. Ryo Suzuki was doing really nice work and visual appearing works in the 
field of human computer interaction, everything seems so facinating, I did not get discourged by 
my PURE award application, I offered to vulounteeraliry work in the programmable reality lab. I was 
only showing up at the lab everyday just wish to see him for a bit and knowing him for a bit, and I was 
not doing a lot of things. But I got time to learn Aframe and some of the unity. I was having fun! Eventually,
he started to assign task to different lab members and I was stuffed on a project called reality canvas 
and working with Kyzyl and Mahammd, I was not the group leader, but I ended up doing a lot of things, I start 
to read paper chalktalk, prototo, body-driven and balabala, and I spent a lot of time grabbing information and 
build taxonomy for the reality canvas, and I was just sitting there see Dr. Suzuki doing his magical things.
It turned out that everyone leave the group along the way, and I ended up being the only people working on 
the realityCanvas, I code each interaction techniques and worked really hard to finished the user-study and 
building graphs and writing the paper, and I still remember that I was sleeping on the lab's floor for 
the last 3 days before the submission and photoshoping the teaser figures to make it beautiful. It was fun, 
a lot of fun! We submitted to the ACM CHI 2023. It passed the first round review, the rebuttal was the 
first time that have been introduced to Academia, I was looking at the reviews and thinking how can I 
rebutte them and 'argue' with them? I tried as someone who just learned how to read and write, I was 
defending my work and my effort. It was awesome! Although it did not make to the publication that cycle,
but man it was my first time to work on some project and submit to conference for peer review! Then my 
fourth year of university started, the work I was doing was so much fun, I read a lot of paper from USNEIX 
and NDSS, IEEE S\&P. I was on a full-year research project with Dr. Reardon, the research project was a 
different area than the research project that I have done in programmable reality lab. I was supervised by 
Dr. Joel Reardon, there was no lab that I could use, so I have to do my own research and sync with Dr. Reardon 
on weekly or bi-weekly basis. I learn a lot about how the Android permission system worked, how it envolved 
and found out a lot of permission maps are outdated so I cloned the Android repository and build a syntax 
analyzer to parse the permissions out from Android source code, and curled 10k applications from various 
stores and decompiled all the APK into smali code and by using the permission map, I was able to extract 
some come API usage patterns and identified potential malcious combination of setAlarm and getUserLocation.
It was all fun that I have, by looking back I was very one dimensional and focus on my study and a relationship
that I had for 5 years. But in the end the relationship collapsed. I went back to China for two months 
and eating and waking up everyday just thinking what am I going to do with my life. What exactly I need 
to do with my life. I could not figure out, but suddenly my previous lab mate at programmable reality lab 
called me recruited me for an softwar development job at Toronto. He recruited me and just like that 
I stepped on a journey to a city that I have never visited before and I worked there for two months and 
helped the company to build a MVP out of it. I visited ACL conference at Fairmont Harborfront in Toronto and 
see many interesting people there and many interesting projects. I recall a particular project that using 
model to predicate the IETF member's words with their associated title, it concluded that the higher the 
title the more formal they write their emails. The researcher says a sentence "If you are really interested,
you will make it happen, you will catch everyone ahead of you. And you should see me starting, I could not 
install a library for weeks". I meet a lot of expats there, especially my senior developer from UK, 
who is a digital nomad who did a replacement year at German. He told me a lot about life and software development. 
He made me structured in my PR and git commit. I meet friends there, Manuel from HSBC, Ryan from UofT, 
Alex from Mexico. They all are brillant engineers and tech greeks, we would have a weekly meetup at victory 
cafe and talk about newest technologies. Then I moved to vancouver for a career change as I see an opportunity,
I did web development at Toronto for my first job and move to Vancouver to do firmware development as I want 
to experience different possibilities. Before I left Toronto, my friend drove me to McGill University and 
I was amazed by the city Montreal and the school, I printed my resume and my paper and ready to talk to professor 
Meger and Dudek, unforuntaly they were not in schoo, but I knocked on the mobile robotics lab 
and meet PhD student Andrew and Master student Dave there, it seems a place I would like to work and people I 
would like to work with. I have more structured working environment and working on tasks, and 
our company Lucid Vision Labs, deal with camera a lot and I got to write firmware which is the software side of 
the hardware. After all those long journey, five years working choosing study aboard. I do thing the startup 
experience let me realize in this life I can do whatever I want to do and even someone unheard could dream 
big and be ambitious as we all put out effects and we believe in ourselves and chase our dreams, we have a 
chance to make a positive impact to this world. It made me thinking, what can I do if I want to change this 
world or realize what I can achieve in this life, and my way of impacting or contributing this world. I would 
do it using something tangible which my previous research experience is mixed reality intersects with tangible,
I want to build my own company, Gladiator Technologies, Inc which I have the thought before I started my 
undergrduate, I want to build tangible staff not just software, I wanna my creation to interact with the 
real world have physical impacts on it. Robotics is the place that I would aim to, I would want to learn 
I am hungry for new knowledge and as computer science student Dr. Meger and Dudek are both in Computer Science 
and their research are more on the software side or control alogrithm for the robotics, it seems 
so much fun and I would love to contribute to the team. By admitting me, you will have a student with strong 
coding ability, strong research background, innovative and independent to conduct research, eager to learn, 
ambitious enough to change the world.